Adam Wilson
Mobile: 07940369813
E-mail:	wilsonadam15@gmail.com 
Flat 16
English Oak house
Bristol
BS13 0FQ
   

PROFILE
I am self-motivated and enjoy learning new skills with a focus on new technologies. I have hands-on experience in delivering technical solutions in Devops environments to tight deadlines.  I have the ability to translate customer business requirements into technical designs and communicate these to peers as well as management. I have experience in Agile teams. I’m enthusiastic about sharing my knowledge and confident in providing technical training for others at all levels. I am adaptable to new situations and am looking for opportunities that will challenge and enhance my skillset.

KEY SKILLS
	Autogen
	Web Design (HTML, CSS)		Programming
	Semantic Kernel		Technical Support
	AI
	Automation Development
	Cloud Networking
	Front end development
	Apache
	Docker
	MySQL
	BDD
	Microsoft Azure Cloud		Training/Coaching
	Python
	HTTP2
	Agile Working
	Open stack
	Database Development
	Flask
	Microsoft Active Directory		Terraform
	Docker
	DevOps
	Network Cloud
	Mentoring
	Jira templates
	CI/CD
	Azure OpenAI
EMPLOYMENT						
Senior Software Development Engineer
Mouser Electronics, EPM | August 2021 – Present
•	AI Platform Team Leadership:
o	Spearheaded the development of an AI platform, leading a team of 8 employees.
o	Recognized as a contributor by Microsoft for my contributions to Semantic Kernal
o	Deployed multiple AI models on Microsoft Azure, using Function apps for data vectorization and Python semantic kernel for scalable template creation.
o	Designed on-premises solutions and a scalable core using Terraform for resource deployment based on approved tickets.
•	Key AI Implementations:
o	Product Assistance Chatbot:
	Deployed a chatbot for customer interactions on the company website, enabling product search using images and various queries.
o	Autogen Generator:
	Developed a tool for automatic code generation, supporting code writing, testing, and deployment via natural language prompts.
o	Product Image Recognition:
	Replaced legacy systems with an AI-based program for product identification on conveyor belts, enhancing order accuracy.
o	Sales Order Entry Automation:
	Automated sales order input, reducing manual entry by 80% through AI document detection.
o	Cost Savings with Language Translations:
	Achieved quarterly savings of $1.5 million in translation in one language alone for automating text translations. We have in total automated 15 languages so far 
•	Additional Contributions:
o	Migrated on-premise passcode management to a cloud-based platform.
o	Established CI/CD pipeline standards and policies using GitLab.
o	Automated Freshservice ITSM ticketing system integration with third-party apps.
o	Managed software image patching, testing, and release using GitLab.
o	Created an automated version control pipeline for Terraform modules.
Achievements:
•	Led AI initiatives resulting in significant operational efficiencies and cost savings.
•	Contributed to Microsoft's Python semantic kernel development.

Lead Automation Software Engineer
System Interface, British Telecom | April 2021 – August 2022
•	Managed a CI/CD team developing 5G standalone solutions for EE UK-wide.
•	Delivered automation solutions for the emergency services network using Python.
•	Modernized old processes, including creating an online RACI Matrix portal and deploying Ericsson tools for network monitoring.
•	Conducted Python programming courses for over 30 BT engineers.
•	Utilized Docker for automated testing environments in a DevOps setup.
•	Created 5G standalone HTTP2 API environments with Blazemeter.
•	Developed Yaml extractors in a BDD context.
•	Collaborated with government cyber teams on national security projects.
Infrastructure Engineer Apprentice
British Telecom | September 2019 – April 2021
•	Awarded best apprentice out of 300+ UK-wide for exceptional work.
•	Designed and maintained in-house monitoring tools for customer networks.
•	Developed a machine learning anomaly detection tool for network monitoring and auto troubleshooting.
•	Worked on national security projects with government services.


Founder & Website Designer
Self-Employed | May 2017 – August 2019
•	Founded a web design company providing promotional and website solutions for small businesses.
•	Self-taught programmer proficient in CSS, HTML, Python, and BBC.
•	Managed a small team and built strong client relationships.



On the side
Within BT I was lucky enough to be selected to be the Head of Attraction ambassador for BT Bristol. This involves promoting and interviewing potential new apprentices, and graduates to BT. For this I manage and delegate work to a team of other apprentices, task include regular visits so schools, universities, and career fares. This has once again improved my management skills to be a confident leader and speaker.  I was also selected to meet with MPs in Bristol and the Mayor of Bristol who subsequently has invited me to further events to talk about do a talk about the company, opportunities and apprenticeships.

Outside of BT I also do python tutoring, this allows me to reinforce my knowledge along with passing it on to other inspiring programmers. 

I am a keen Mountain Biker, travelling to various events and races throughout the UK racing

I love Rugby and play for a local Bristol team. I also have been asked to do their marketing and digital footprint.  


Key Certifications			

A Levels		Engineering – Distinction			
Physics – C
			Computer Science Practical – A*

BT Apprentice while studying at the University of Bristol

•	2020 - Microsoft Technology Associate Cloud Fundamentals
•	2020 - BSC Level 3 Coding and Logic
•	2020 - Microsoft Technology Associate Networking Fundamentals
•	2020 - Microsoft Technology Associate Device Fundamentals
•	2020 - Microsoft Technology Associate Networking Materials	 
